We're gonna talk a little
bit about RTK query.
Like there's you can actually kinda see
like some of the pieces in the bold text.
We wire some of the stuff up by
hand in using thunks, right?
And that works there's obviously
a lot even like create a thunk but
we had to like set the state ourselves for
loading, we had to turn it off when it
wasn't loading there's probably
things that we need to do like.
And that was the simplest case of
like go hit API put thing on screen.
And that covers a lot of use cases, right?
But like, stuff like Irene but
then also stuff like okay, but
what if you wanna do like,
hit it again every five minutes,
60 seconds, 30 seconds, whatever, right?
What if you're gonna
do a polling interval?
What if you wanna say, like,
I wanna hold on to the data,
which I have implemented before, but then,
like, when do you decide that
it gets subjected, right?
If they're navigating away,
if they leave viewing a certain,
if the component unmounts and
you throw it away.
And then the component remounts and like
especially if there's a used effect on it,
whatever, you'd re fetch the data, right?
It would be great if like yeah if
something they navigated away and
came back,
we still held onto that data in the store.
Like to kinda your question earlier,
like I forget who ask like, what happens
if the promise comes back from the thunk
before the application bootstrapped?
We're like, cool,
we have the data ready to go for you.
Here it is, right?
And it would be nice if we could have
stuff like that yeah where if they just
navigated away,
they could put it un mounted,
they came back like it's
been under 60 seconds.
Here it is.
And if we wanted to,
we're gonna kick off another poll every
60 seconds, yeah stuff like that,
like there's a lot of nuance
to things that we wanna do.
The important thing to note though, is how
much of that is really state management
and our state management and
the fetching of the data from the server.
The same thing or they just kind
of like siblings or cousins and
stuff along those lines.
So like the interesting part about our RTK
Query and the reason I wanna talk about is
cuz like you can't really talk about
thunks without talking about it.
However, like they're kind of
like slightly different animals.
It's super useful.
The two disclaimers I wanna make.
One you do not have to be
using RTK Query like if you
do not need to be using
Redux to use RTK Query.
And you do not need to use RTK Query and
use Redux like they are separate.
You can use either or both.
That is the question one.
Answer one to questions
that weren't asked.
Answer to two questions that weren't
asked is, well, what about React query?
What about Apollo?
What about Oracle?
Yeah, if you're using those use them,
right?
I think the interesting part
like one if you're not, right?
There's different charts that show
the different like, what they have and
what they don't have.
I think the interesting part about RTK
Query is that it is very much like this
is like.
Or even like us SWF or
like any of those libraries that
are supposed to be better versions of
fetch that can give you loading states and
error states and retries and
all those things out of the box.
RTK Query its advantages
if you're interested or
the fact that one it is
built on top of Redux.
And so everything is an action
which means if for instance,
if you're like evaluated
a bunch of these and
you do have a bunch of like
Redux actions already firing and
you are living in that Redux developer
tool console all the time, right?
And you want the actions that
come back from this to be able
to kick off things that happen
other places in your App,
then like, sure,
like absolutely go do that, right?
Like that seems totally reasonable, right?
It will integrate nicely.
It does not necessarily like I can't
remember if this is just like listening
to like an interview with one of like,
[COUGH] the maintainers.
I'm finding that they're like
claiming that it's better.
It's just nicely integrated with Redux if
that is the thing that interests you and
is like some of the kind of common
practices built on top of Redux.
So I think one is also interesting just
to see like how far you could go down
the rabbit hole of what we just saw.
And two it feels irresponsible to
now talk about a thing literally
included in the package
that you can import.
Again, I will repeat the things at the
very beginning, which is if you use Redux,
Redux Toolkit you do not need to use RTK
Query for anything those thunks will work.
Redux observable work.
And if you wanna use RTK Query,
you don't have to use Redux for
the rest of your state management.
It's like Redux is for your state
management that has been the theme of our
time together is talking about that.
That said, this is actually
something I'm really excited about.
And I'm starting to use on a work project.
And I kinda wanted to show it to you.
[LAUGH] I kinda take you on a little
bit of tour because I think it is,
especially if you have a Redux code base.
And what are like interested in how
those things can Interplay together,
worth taking a little bit of time to
see the patterns there and explore.
So it's kinda like our little bonus run,
and we'll kinda take a look at it.
Just like to prove the point
that you don't need to have any
Redux infrastructure kind of installed.
I like switched apps on us.
And this one,
this React App has nothing in it.
It has no state management to speak of.
I think it's got empty
arrays in various places.
And I mostly did that to prove the point
of like, you need to have all this set up.
It's like a thing that
you can kind of use and
it provides everything kind
of ready to go for you.
So we'll kinda take it for a spin in
this app, which was a later decision.
So well, we'll find out but
we'll pull it in and see.
So let's kind of explore
like how this goes.
And like see what some of the patterns are
like what kinda you know do it on a very
like high level but
I think that there's a lot there and
a lot of the features
are worth investigating.
So, let's say like in we had a directory
called features for like slices before.
In this case we're gonna have one
called services which conveniently
is the pattern that they
recommend from the team and
also the same pattern that
I use my own code base.
That everyone looks at me like I'm crazy,
but
I call the things a fetch
things to the API services.
And then I have to re-explain that to
everyone in the back-end team cuz I
call everything a service that I'm just
calling my data fetching my API service.
I can't remember where
I stole the term from,
probably Amber probably five or
six years ago.
Because that's where I
stole most things from but,
like I'm glad that like
somebody is there with me.
And so instead of slices
we create the services and
the general rule is you
probably only have one service.
The kind of rule is basically a service
per like base API endpoint.
Like if you're only talking to one API,
like not like,
we've got tasks,
I've got users like No, one API, right?
Then that would be one.
If you're talking to two
completely different APIs,
then you might have two services.
But it's usually one per like root
endpoint that you would talk to.
And it is included in kind of a
sub-package inside of it, of its toolkit,
and so
what we're gonna do is we'll pull in
Well, this and we'll say go
work the way that I want it to.
I made this like do
imports the better way.
Redux I'd say.
>> Too bad that doesn't auto complete.
>> Yeah, imports are funny sometimes.
So we'll say we were joking earlier.
That like auto import.
Works 50% of the time.
Works every time.
Redox yeah now's autocompleting when
before it was just like no I'm not
doing it.
That's great I love it.
Now there's Redox toolkit/Query
which is technically RTK Query and
there's another one called
Redux Toolkit Query/react.
What do you think?
Like we'll see why.
That's cool.
But like the point like it's a react
version the other one is you know
if not putting that part in there
is UI framework agnostic, right?
There's something called
the react version that we'll see.
And so
the same way that we made a slice before.
We're just gonna say We'll say like,
I'm gonna call it like a task API.
I mean, these are items this time, right?
Item API like cuz this thing
really only has items involved
like I'll show you the fake
endpoints in a second.
It's a packing list.
There's only one set of endpoints.
Calling it an items API seems right.
I guess I could call it just an API too.
But I'll name it.
And we're gonna say that
that is this create API.
Okay.
So it takes a few things.
One is like what you want this
like reducer path to be called.
And you just give it some name.
This is kinda like the name
that we had previously And
then we give it this baseQuery, which is
like what's the common part of that API?
And we can give this abstraction
around fetch that is kinda built in.
You could also if you wanna use a GraphQL,
you're gonna write a logic for
getting those requests and
responses and stuff like that yourself.
And so
like you can use it with anything, but
like I have a fake API ready for fetch.
And that's other than a little WebG or
PC sometimes, what I generally use.
And then like the base of
this is the base URLs.
And we'll do such on API.
Awesome.
Right?
And that's kind of the like initial high
level and we'll have to wire it up and
wrap it around in a second.
But would you agree about.
Maybe missing some things in there but
it's fine.
Yeah, I need to put in points and
that makes sense.
All right.
So endpoints are kind of
like a reducer in this and
they will get, what do you think?
A builder, so you can see that
the pattern has a lot of overlap.
And I guess like you could
say that like not only does
it integrate nicely,
as well, but like also,
it is useful for
it's actually nice to return an object.
So I'm gonna do the I can
return an object I can also do.
I was trying an object.
And these are our endpoints.
So we could have something like get items.
And what does get items do, right?
It's going to say builder,
you can get nice part.
As you can see,
the builder has two methods.
A query, get a mutation, do,
right, put, post, delete, whatever.
That we have in place and
in there we can also say like what
that is eventually going to return.
So we'll say it's in this case items and
if it takes any arguments.
So for instance like obviously
like get all my take params,
my take away friends whatever like we were
not putting a dynamic piece in there.
So we'll just say void, right?
And I don't want a mutation I want query.
Awesome.
And so I can do that.
And then that is gonna take
another like configuration object.
Which is why it's like, okay,
what is the query in this case?
And so the query for us is just like,
what is the endpoint?
If it took an argument, like if you're
like, get me item number three,
that's where that would go, right?
But in this case, like we're gonna start
with just the easy one, which is items.
And that is the beginning
of how this works.
We just wanted to immediately like fetch
the items and have them ready to go.
We have like the beginnings of
an entire like API service.
And like ideally for this endpoint,
you would add all of these like in place,
right?
And so your get items you'd have get, if
it was the other app, we'd have get tasks,
get users, all of those things as things
that you could like call in this case.
And we have that.
And if we had a store, like I'll show
you like if you have an existing store,
like there are some things on
this API that you can use.
Which is how like when we saw a configure
store before, it was a key and a value
like tasks and there was the task reducer,
user, and there was users reducer.
This API, not a slice service,
if we looked at it,
item API has a bunch of fun stuff in it.
It's got endpoints.
And kinda look at that and
see that it's got the getItems on it
already like set up and typed in there.
But the other one that is useful
is reducer and reducerPath, right?
And so the reducerPath is the key and
you're combining reducers and
the reducer is the value, right?
So it's kind of like,
cuz it is redux under the hood,
even though like I said before, you
don't need to have necessarily used it.
And so like we could go ahead like and
configure a store.
Store.ts and we can say
ConfigureStore, we know that
that takes the reducer.
The reducers, that's gonna combine.
And so here, did I export it?
Yeah, I did, look at me.
I'm surprised every time.
Item API.
We gotta put that in
the object .reducerpath.
And then itemapi.reducer.
So, that's kind of like, it's setting
all those stuff up ready for you.
And we know the configure store is
gonna set the Redux developer tools.
So it's gonna have everything else wired
up and ready to go for us as well.
>> What does it have to be in an array?
>> This is not an array.
This is a syntax in ES 2015.
Maybe earlier.
It's the syntax in modern day
JavaScript to say this is not a string,
this is a variable that
references a string, right?
The reducer's path is
items API in this case.
It's just the string that this service
is as the key and that's the value.
It's like the square brackets are saying,
put this variable in here.
So it's an object.
Yeah.
Good question.
And optionally if you want there
is middleware that you can add and
this is worth just to show
how middleware works in.
We're not gonna use middleware but
it's worth showing it to how it works
in Redux toolkit anyway, is I told you
there was a bunch of middleware in place
if you needed to add more middleware.
The pattern for that function gets one
argument which is get default middleware.
That way you don't replace that
middleware and have to worry about it.
So like if you wanna blow away all the
middleware that Redux Toolkit gave you,
you can do that.
But you can also say that like, hey,
our middleware should be
get default middleware.
Concurred like a race spread, whatever
makes you happier, like other middleware.
It doesn't really matter.
In this case, we'll do the So
that is what it takes to like set
up one of these API services.
We still need to wrap a react app in it,
but like that's and
again like there's Redux happening,
but none of this you'll see.
I'm not gonna write a single slice.
That's why I brought it into this
other example on a whim, so we'll see.
Because like you don't have to have it,
but the nice part is those actions
go through all the same reducers as
the other stuff does as well and
you could integrate it
into a larger app too.
And so in here, then we can just go and
say you actually get two providers.
You get provider and you also get,
I believe, API provider.
What is the difference?
This one just I think is lighter and
does less.
Otherwise, they're the same.
But it's just less code cuz now you're
not using the rest of the stuff.
Did I export that store?
I didn't even save into a variable.
Awesome.
And then so I'll say Tour.
Maybe I need the real
provider in this case.
Yeah, let's pull in the react redux1.
I want the real one forget what to type.
I don't have react redux.
That was my issue.
I made one little bit,
let's just install that real quick and
then I'll show you something
else while that installs.
React redux, boom.
Let that rock and roll for a second.
That was faster than I expected.
Awesome.
Pull in my store.
Cool.
Why?
Autocomplete don't fail me now.
All right, so we've got that in place.
It should all be wired up.
We're not doing anything with it yet.
But we have the initial
like piece in there.